1. 

Generating image captions for an album of family vacations photos may
be too much of a broad task for the AI. Family vacation photos can have
a range of themes and it may be too much of a difficult problem for the 
AI. There may be photos where the AI may encouter something that it didn't
expect. Because the mental capacity of AI is much smaller compared to humans, 
if the tasks are too broad, the AI will most likely struggle. The narrower
the task, and the more that the AI can specialize, the better they function.
For example, instead of generating image captions for various photos taken
during a family vacation, if it was given a more specialized task of generating
a caption for pictures that had one theme: the beach, it may perform better.
Also, there are many nuances that the AI will not catch and the AI may simply describe
what's going on in the picture. 


Several episodes of an animated TV show may not have sufficient data to 
accurately identify the characters from that show in a different context. 
AI are quite slow learners compared to humans. AI would need to train
with pictures of these characters in varied context in order to figure 
out that the "thing" that they're looking for is the character. Similar to 
the sheep on the grassland. If the AI trained with images that always had
sheep on grassy areas, it may mistake the "sheep" they're looking for as 
the grass. 


One limitation of AI is that it has limited memory. In order to generate an ending
for an unfinished novel by a prolific author, the AI would need to remember 
the storyline, the characters in the story, and from that predict what may happen. 
Text generation works best for AI when it needs to generate sentences that are
more or less independent from each other since it doesn't need to remember
the entire backstory or article at once. AI won't be able to generate a 
ending that makes sense according to the storyline becuase of the ambiguity
that it may encounter that can only be resolved by remembering the previous 
part of the story. AI can lose track of critical information, and AI generated
stories may lack the deeper meaning that humans can produce. 


2. 
In the Nintendo DS game, Pokemon, AI is used to simulate trainers inside
the game that searches for the user and challenges them in a Pokemon battle.
These AI agents navigate the map to the user (a new trainer) and their goal
is to defeat this trainer in the battle by making sure that their Pokemons
don't faint in the battle. The AI agent calculates the the potential damages
that their Pokemon can experience and and give to and from the user's Pokemon.
The AI agent has a decision tree that helps it choose its next move or action
based on the current and predicted situations. For example, the AI agent can
choose to heal its weakened Pokemon in battle over using a powerful move that may not
completely wipe out the opponent's Pokemon. At the highest level (during the 
league championships), these AI agents are very difficult to defeat and have 
supassed human performance many times (from personal experience and from watching
other people play the game). Personally, I like to use a simple technique of 
using powerful moves against the opponent's Pokemon over other options such as 
healing my Pokemon or using moves that don't attack the opponent's Pokemon but 
instead raise the attack power or defense of the Pokemon. However, the AI can
calculate the best actions based on my brute-force technique based on its decision
tree and so has outperformed me many times. Similar to chess, if the AI agents 
are programmed to always defeat the users, it can most likely succeed every time.
The only reason why users are allowed to win the AI agents is because the AI agents
are programmed depending on the level at which the users are at. 
Source: https://hackaday.com/2014/05/19/pokemon-artificial-intelligence-is-smarter-than-you/ 